[56]Around the edges, there have been some changes. Apple removed the traditional iPad slider-switch at upper right that was previously used for either muting/unmuting the audio or locking the orientation. (Youd choose one of the two functions for the slider to serve in the tablets settings.) Now, mute is relegated to pushing the volume all the way down, and orientation lock is handled strictly via iOS, via the Control Center (the mini-menu you reach by swiping up from the bottom of the screen). We rather miss the physical orientation-lock function; the swipe-and-touch process to activate the lock, though it's hardly arduous, now means we're less inclined to use it. As before, the audio output is clear and precise, but not room-filling. It's perfectly adequate for single-user movie watching or music listening, so long as you don't prop up the tablet on your lap in portrait orientation, in which case you'll muffle the speakers. Of course, the make-or-break design feature of any tablet is the display, and in the case of the iPad Air 2, its screen is easily up to the standard of its predecessors with Retina screens. The Retina screen in the full-size iPads is a 9.7-inch display with a resolution thats slightly higher than full HD; well talk more about it on the next page. (Apples smaller iPad Mini comes in two versionsthe iPad Mini 2 and Mini 3that also use a Retina-variety screen as their 7.9-inch displays.) But its integrated as well as ever, with a new antiglare coating thats markedly more effective at reducing reflections than the original iPad Airs surface is (though it's not wholly effective). Part of the reason thats possible is an internal change to the way the screen is made. We mentioned the new barometer a moment ago; that was put in place to measure altitude, including for health-related applications that may involve, say, climbing stairs. That sensor complements the accelerometer, gyroscope, and GPS, also present in previous iPads. (Note that "true" GPS functionality is only provided in the cellular-capable iPad Air 2 models; the mapping function in the Wi-Fi only models uses Wi-Fi triangulation.) The Wi-Fi connectivity, which will be the connection type that most users will lean on most of the time, is leading-edge 802.11ac, the latest multi-band connection that works over a 5GHz connection. To get the most out of it, you will need an 802.11ac-compliant router that supports MIMO, though of course the iPads Wi-Fi chip will bounce down in speed to accommodate older access points. And as ever, for those who need their iPads to be connected at all times, Apple also offers each color and capacity variant of the iPad Air 2 in a cellular-capable version for an extra $130. Here, though, theres a new twist: The iPad Air 2 makes use of a multi-carrier mini-SIM card (dubbed "Apple SIM") that allows buyers to shift among, at least in the United States, three carriers: T-Mobile, AT&T, and Sprint. (Verizon still requires its own.) That will allow for easier switching between carriers, if you opt for a pay-as-you-go plan, want a short-term plan rather than a contracted monthly commitment, or change locations. Beyond the carrier-switching ability, the iPad Air 2 also brings new support for 20 LTE bands, which, depending on your carriers plan and local conditions, can allow for up to 150Mbps downloads via the cellular connection. (We did not have the opportunity to test this.) This is a change-up versus the previous iPad storage hierarchy, which went up in steps of 16GB, 32GB, and 64GB. The 32GB step was eliminated with the iPhone 6 family, and that carried over to these latest iPads, as well. Ourselves, we'd like to see the entry step boosted to 32GB, and the 16GB eliminated, seeing as the iPad still lacks a wish-list feature asked for since the first model in 2010: a flash-card slot. C'mon, Apple!
